Update .NET Standard overview for .NET 5 (#20955)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/net-standard.md

---
title: .NET Standard
description: Learn about .NET Standard, its versions, and the .NET implementations that support it.
ms.date: 10/05/2020
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
ms.custom: "updateeachrelease"
ms.assetid: c044882c-af15-45f2-96d1-534557a5ee9b
---
# .NET Standard

> [.NET Standard](https://github.com/dotnet/standard) is a formal specification of .NET APIs that are available on multiple .NET implementations. The motivation behind .NET Standard was to establish greater uniformity in the .NET ecosystem. However, .NET 5 adopts a different approach to establishing uniformity, and this new approach eliminates the need for .NET Standard in many scenarios. For more information, see [.NET 5 and .NET Standard](#net-5-and-net-standard) later in this article.

Reviewer: We should probably be consistent between ".NET Standard" and "the .NET Standard". Later on in this article you use "the".

Author: Agreed.  I'll remove "the"

The primary distribution vehicle for the .NET Standard reference assemblies is NuGet packages. Implementations are delivered in a variety of ways, appropriate for each .NET implementation.

NuGet packages target one or more [frameworks](frameworks.md). The .NET Standard packages target the ".NET Standard" framework. You can target the .NET Standard framework using the `netstandard` [compact TFM](frameworks.md) (for example, `netstandard1.4`). Libraries that are intended to run on multiple implementations of .NET should target this framework. For the broadest set of APIs, target `netstandard2.0` since the number of available APIs more than doubled between .NET Standard 1.6 and 2.0.

The [`NETStandard.Library`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/NETStandard.Library/) metapackage references the complete set of NuGet packages that define .NET Standard.  The most common way to target `netstandard` is by referencing this metapackage. It describes and provides access to the ~40 .NET libraries and associated APIs that define .NET Standard. You can reference additional packages that target `netstandard` to get access to additional APIs.

### Versioning

> The specification is not singular, but a linearly versioned set of APIs. The first version of the standard establishes a baseline set of APIs. Subsequent versions add APIs and inherit APIs defined by previous versions. There is no established provision for removing APIs from the standard.

Reviewer: I think later on in this article you capitalize "the Standard".

If you only need to consume .NET Standard 2.0 libraries in your projects, you can also do that in Visual Studio 2015. However, you need NuGet client 3.6 or higher installed. You can download the NuGet client for Visual Studio 2015 from the [NuGet downloads](https://www.nuget.org/downloads) page.

## .NET 5 and .NET Standard

.NET 5 is the implementation of .NET that Microsoft is actively developing. It's a single product with a uniform set of capabilities and APIs that can be used for Windows desktop apps and cross-platform console apps, cloud services, and websites. The .NET 5.0 [TFMs](frameworks.md) reflect this broad range of scenarios:

* `net5.0`

  This TFM is for code that runs everywhere. With a few exceptions, it includes only technologies that work cross-platform. For .NET 5 code, `net5.0` replaces both `netcoreapp` and `netstandard` TFMs.

> * `net5.0-windows`

Reviewer: There are others too: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/frameworks#net-5-os-specific-tfms

- Slowness to add new APIs

  .NET Standard was created as an API set that all .NET implementations would have to support, so there was a review process for proposals to add new APIs. The goal was to standardize only APIs that could be implemented in all current and future .NET platforms. The result was that if a feature missed a particular release, you might have to wait for a couple of years before it got added to a version of the Standard. Then you'd wait even longer for the new version of .NET Standard to be widely supported.

  **Solution in .NET 5:** When a feature is implemented, it's already available for every .NET 5 app and library because the code base is shared. And since there's no difference between the API specification and its implementation, you're able to take advantage of new features much quicker than with .NET Standard.

- Complex versioning

  The separation of the API specification from its implementations results in complex mapping between API specification versions and implementation versions. This complexity is evident in the table shown earlier in this article and the instructions for how to interpret it.

>   **Solution in .NET 5:** There's no separation between a .NET 5.x API specification and its implementation. The result is a simplified TFM scheme. There's one TFM prefix for all workloads: `net5.0` is used for libraries, console apps, and web apps. The only variation is a suffix that specifies platform-specific APIs for Windows desktop apps: `net5.0-windows`. Thanks to this TFM naming convention, you can easily tell whether a given app can use a given library. No version number equivalents table like the one for .NET Standard is needed.

Reviewer: There are other suffixes too, not just Windows. See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/frameworks#net-5-os-specific-tfms.

- Platform-unsupported exceptions at run time

>   The .NET Standard exposes platform-specific APIs. Your code might compile without errors and appear to be portable to any platform even if it isn't portable. When it runs on a platform that doesn’t have an implementation for a given API, you get runtime errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The .NET Standard exposes platform-specific APIs. Your code might compile without errors and appear to be portable to any platform even if it isn't portable. When it runs on a platform that doesn’t have an implementation for a given API, you get run-time errors.
```

>   **Solution in .NET 5:** The .NET 5 SDK includes analyzers and code fixers that are enabled by default. The platform compatibility analyzer detects unintentional use of APIs that aren't supported on the platforms you intend to run on. For more information, see [Platform compatibility analyzer](analyzers/platform-compat-analyzer.md).

Reviewer: The code fixers are only available in Visual Studio; not sure if we need to mention that.
